Add tutorials for blend animation and retargeting (#6322)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/assets_pipeline/retargeting_3d_skeletons.rst

The Skeleton stores the Transform values necessary for the default pose as Bone Rest.
If Bone Pose is equal to Bone Rest, it means that the Skeleton is in the default pose.

.. note:: Godot 3.x and Godot 4.0+ have different Bone Pose behaviors.
          In Godot 3.x, Bone Pose is relative to Bone Rest, but in Godot 4.0+,
          it includes Bone Rest. See this `article <https://godotengine.org/article/animation-data-redesign-40>`__.

Skeletal models have different Bone Rests depending on the environment from
which they were exported. For example, the bones of a glTF model output from Blender
have Edit Bone Orientation as the Bone Rest rotation. However, there are skeletal
models without any Bone Rest rotations, such as the glTF model output from Maya.

To share animations in Godot, it is necessary to match Bone Rests as well as Bone Names,
moreover to remove unwanted tracks in some cases. In Godot 4.0+, you can do that using
the scene importer.

Options for Retargeting
-----------------------

Bone Map
~~~~~~~~

When you select the Skeleton3D node on the scene importer, you can find the Retarget
section on the inspector.

.. image:: img/retargeting1.webp

> With the Skeleton node selected in the importer, first set up a new BoneMap and SkeletonProfile.
> Godot has a preset called SkeletonProfileHumanoid for humanoid models.
> This tutorial will proceed with the assumption that you will use SkeletonProfileHumanoid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Skeleton node selected, first set up a new BoneMap and SkeletonProfile.
Godot has a preset called SkeletonProfileHumanoid for humanoid models.
This tutorial proceeds with the assumption that you are using SkeletonProfileHumanoid.
```

.. note:: If you need a profile for a model such as a beast or creature, you can export
          a SkeletonProfile from SkeletonEditor with some information converted from Skeleton.

> When you use SkeletonProfileHumanoid, the auto-mapping will be performed when the
> SkeletonProfile is set. If the auto-mapping does not work well, you can map bones manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use SkeletonProfileHumanoid, auto-mapping will be performed when the
SkeletonProfile is set. If the auto-mapping does not work well, you can map bones manually.
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^

Rename the mapped bones.

Unique Node
^^^^^^^^^^^

Makes Skeleton a unique node with the name specified in the Skeleton Name.
This allows the animation track paths to be unified independent of the scene hierarchy.

Rest Fixer
~~~~~~~~~~

Reference Poses defined in SkeletonProfileHumanoid have the following rules:

* The humanoid is T-pose
* The humanoid is facing +Z in the Right-Handed Y-UP Coordinate System
* The humanoid should not have a transform as Node
* Directs the +Y axis from the parent joint to the child joint
* +X rotation bends the joint like a muscle contracting

These rules are convenient definitions for blend animation and Inverse Kinematics (IK).
If your model does not match this definition, you need to fix it with these options.

Apply Node Transform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the asset is not exported correctly for sharing, the imported Skeleton may have
a transform as a Node. For example, a glTF exported from Blender with no Apply Transform
executed is one such case. It looks like the model matches the definition,
but the internal transforms are different from the definition.
This option fixes such models by applying transforms on importer.

> .. note:: If the imported scene contains objects other than Skeletons, this option may have a bad effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: If the imported scene contains objects other than Skeletons, this option may have a negative effect.
```

.. _doc_retargeting_3d_skeletons:

Retargeting 3D Skeletons
========================

To share animations among multiple Skeletons
--------------------------------------------

> Godot has Position/Rotation/Scale 3D tracks (hereafter called Transform track)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Godot has Position/Rotation/Scale 3D tracks (hereafter called Transform tracks)
```

> with Nodepath to bone for Skeleton bone animation. If you think that you can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with Nodepaths to bones for Skeleton bone animation. If you think that you can
```

share animations between multiple Skeletons as long as the bone names are the
same, that is not correct.

Godot allows each bone to have a parent-child relationship and can have rotation

> and scale as well as position. It means that the bones can have Transform values
> independently.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and scale as well as position, which means that the bones can have independent Transform values.
```

> Skeleton has the Transform values necessary for the default pose as Bone Rest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Skeleton holds the Transform values necessary for the default pose as Bone Rest.
```

If Bone Pose is equal to Bone Rest, it means that the Skeleton is in the default pose.

.. note:: Godot 3.x and Godot 4.0+ have different Bone Pose behaviors.
          In Godot 3.x, Bone Pose is relative to Bone Rest, but in Godot 4.0+,

>           it includes Bone Rest. See the `article <https://godotengine.org/article/animation-data-redesign-40>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          it includes Bone Rest. See this `article <https://godotengine.org/article/animation-data-redesign-40>`__.
```

Skeletal models have different Bone Rests depending on the environment from
which they were exported. For example, the bones of a glTF model output from Blender
have Edit Bone Orientation as the Bone Rest rotation. However, there are skeletal
models without any Bone Rest rotations, such as the glTF model output from Maya.

To share animations in Godot, it is necessary to match Bone Rests as well as Bone Names,

> moreover to remove unwanted tracks in some cases. In Godot 4.0+, you can do that workflow
> on the scene importer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
moreover to remove unwanted tracks in some cases. In Godot 4.0+, you can do that using
the scene importer.
```

> Options for Retarget
> --------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Options for Retargeting
-----------------------
```

Bone Map
~~~~~~~~

When you select the Skeleton3D node on the scene importer, you can find the Retarget
section on the inspector.

.. image:: img/retargeting1.png

With the Skeleton node selected in the importer, first set up a new BoneMap and SkeletonProfile.

> Godot has a preset SkeletonProfileHumanoid for humanoid models.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Godot has a preset called SkeletonProfileHumanoid for humanoid models.
```

This tutorial will proceed with the assumption that you will use SkeletonProfileHumanoid.

.. note:: If you need a profile for a model such as a beast or creature, you can export
          a SkeletonProfile from SkeletonEditor with some information converted from Skeleton.

When you use SkeletonProfileHumanoid, the auto-mapping will be performed when the
SkeletonProfile is set. If the auto-mapping does not work well, you can map bones manually.

.. image:: img/retargeting2.png

> Any missing / duplicate or incorrect parent-child relationship mappings will be indicated

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any missing, duplicate or incorrect parent-child relationship mappings will be indicated
```

by a magenta / red button (depending on the editor setting). It does not block the import process,
but it warns that animations may not be shared correctly.

.. note:: The auto-mapping uses pattern matching for the bone names. So we recommend
          to use common English names for bones.

> After you set up the BoneMap, several options are available in the below sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you set up the BoneMap, several options are available in the sections below.
```

.. image:: img/retargeting3.png

Remove Tracks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you import resources as an AnimationLibrary that will be shared, we recommend to enable these options.
However, if you import resources as scenes, these should be disabled in some cases.
For example, if you import a character with animated accessories,
these options may cause the accessories to not animate.

Except Bone Transform
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Removes any tracks except the bone Transform track from the animations.

Unimportant Positions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Removes Position tracks other than ``root_bone`` and ``scale_base_bone``
defined in SkeletonProfile from the animations. In SkeletonProfileHumanoid,
this means that to remove Position tracks other than Root and Hips.

> Since Godot 4.0+ animations include Bone Rest in the transform value, if you disable this option,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since Godot 4.0+, animations include Bone Rest in the transform value, if you disable this option,
```

the animation may change the body shape unpredictably.

Unmapped Bones
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Removes unmapped bone transform tracks from the animations.

Bone Renamer
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Rename Bones
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Rename the mapped bones.

Unique Node
^^^^^^^^^^^

Makes Skeleton a unique node with the name specified in the Skeleton Name.
This allows the animation track paths to be unified independent of the scene hierarchy.

Rest Fixer
~~~~~~~~~~

Reference Poses defined in SkeletonProfileHumanoid have the following rules:

* The humanoid is T-pose
* The humanoid is facing +Z in the Right-Handed Y-UP Coordinate System
* The humanoid should not have a transform as Node
* Directs the +Y axis from the parent joint to the child joint
* +X rotation bends the joint like a muscle contracting

> These rules are convenient definitions for blend animation and IK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These rules are convenient definitions for blend animation and Inverse Kinematics (IK).
```
